
 Alrighty. So at the moment I have two ideas that I want to talk about. First is setting up a plan and a path for getting a cloud server started and learning how to basically pay for that, get the infrastructure going, and yeah, fine tuning some model, following a tutorial program. I found this guy, Phil Schmid. And he has projects and blog posts all about this stuff that seemed pretty good. So I want to get started with that. I'm looking at another thing here that's through AWS. It's a SageMaker hugging face inference toolkit on GitHub and could be what I'm looking for. Let's see what else is on this. AWS examples, AWS deep learning container. I mean, that might be it too. Anyway, this is all on Phil Schmid's website. So I definitely need to check that stuff out. And if you can, actually never mind. And then my second, second thought is I want to see about starting a company. I'm not quite sure if that's exactly even the right thing to do. So you can look into this and give me your input. So yeah, my question is, what me and my friends are starting this project? That's about developing tools using using AI and testing it on cloud servers and also trying to test it on hardware. And we want to do research and possibly develop some business solutions of starting a business. Anyway, so that's the general idea. And I don't know if it makes sense to turn it into a business and how can we leverage that in order to get some sort of financial benefits, like if we need to buy equipment and computers to run models on or if we need to buy server space, like, can this make sense to have a business and to write it off? And what sorts of advantages does that have? So if you can tell me some of your thoughts on that, that would be great. And so yeah, so essentially the idea is like, do we make this a business? How do I go about doing that? It doesn't need to be an LLC or, you know, I mean, it's we're not really exactly hiring employees. Yeah. So yeah, I want to if also if you have any information on like, or ideas about how to monetize this and get funding, like through grants or or something like what, where do we reach out about that? Yeah. So if you could go through, summarize these two points and, you know, answer the questions I asked and summarize it and, you know, make make a a yeah, bullet point list of all the topics and then also your suggestions and anything else I may have missed out. Like, if you have any any thoughts, you can add them. All right. Thank you. [BLANK_AUDIO]
